Box says, in Books and Bitters, that had he lived, Harry Widener would have been the greatest book collector the world has ever known.
That's a little press agentry going on there, don't you think, for the benefit of misunderstanding?
Well, that's considering that many, if not most, of the books that were bought were bought after his death because his mother wanted to spend money in his memory.
And she was willing to spend anything.
And she did not want her name tied in with it, did she?
Tied in with it, no.
This was Harry's collection.
A great collection.
No, it is.
Who knows?
The doctor was the agent for that, too.
It's a great story.
He was quite a character, by the way.
Rosenbach.
He was more than a bookman, I guess.
Well, let me say this.
I think that Hans Krauss, as an example, was probably a better bookman than the doctor.
I think he may have had a wider, deeper knowledge of not all books, granted, but manuscripts and early books.
But, and so, books at tremendous prices, but
people bought from them, but they didn't like them.
Krauss.
I don't know whether you can get Bill Scheide to talk to you about it.
I'm not going to talk to you about what he told me, but the feeling is, yeah, sure, you buy from Krauss because, by God, he's got the books, but
He isn't the kind of person that you're ever going to be a great friend of.
On the other hand, the people who bought from the doctor, Lessing, Arthur Houghton, the Hydes, Harry Wagner, so forth, were good friends.
Yeah.
Shady, you mentioned Shady.
That is almost unprecedented, where you have three generations of...
Because book collecting really is not normally a hereditary thing.
That's right.